Name: Aaron D. Franklin
Department: Electrical and Computer Engineering
Short Description: Associate Dean for Faculty Affairs, Addy Professor of ECE

Research Interests:
Nanomaterials in electronic devices, nanofabrication, printed electronics and internet of things (IoT), biosensing

Bio:
Dr. Aaron Franklin received his Ph.D. in Electrical Engineering from Purdue University in 2008 and then spent six years on the research staff at the IBM T. J. Watson Research Center in Yorktown Heights, NY.  His work at IBM focused on low-dimensional nanoelectronics with specific emphasis on carbon nanotube (CNT) transistors, including device scaling, transport studies, and diverse integration approaches.  While at IBM, Dr. Franklin was awarded an Outstanding Technical Achievement recognition for his work on nanoscale CNT transistors. He was also involved in many other projects with applications including photovoltaics, thin-film transistors, and supercapacitors.  Dr. Franklin joined the Duke faculty in 2014.Research in the Franklin group is focused on improving the performance and functionality of nanomaterial-enabled electronic devices.  This includes high-performance devices from low-dimensional materials, such as 2D semiconductors, 1D carbon nanotubes, and nanowires. Also included is the low-cost realm of printed electronics, which benefits from the incorporation of nanomaterials to enhance electrical transport over large printed features, along with other application-specific advantages. The primary drive of the Franklin group's research is to improve performance of, and expand applications for, electronic devices, including those with more custom form factors and/or functionality (e.g., flexibility, transparency, biocompatibility, recyclability).  A growing thrust in the lab is the application of ultrasensitive, inexpensively processed nanomaterials to electronic biosensing applications.  There is an increasing variety of new electronics applications that nanomaterials are uniquely capable of enabling -- the Franklin group works to make such applications possible.

Education:
B.S.E. Arizona State University, 2004
Ph.D. Purdue University, 2008

Positions:
Addy Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering
Professor in the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering
Associate Dean for Faculty Affairs
Professor of Chemistry

Awards:


Courses Taught:
NANOSCI 511: Foundations of Nanoscale Science and Technology
ME 392: Undergraduate Projects in Mechanical Engineering
EGR 790: Special Topics in Engineering
EGR 393: Research Projects in Engineering
ECE 899: Special Readings in Electrical Engineering
ECE 891: Internship
ECE 590: Advanced Topics in Electrical and Computer Engineering
ECE 512: Emerging Nanoelectronic Devices
ECE 511: Foundations of Nanoscale Science and Technology
ECE 494: Projects in Electrical and Computer Engineering
ECE 493: Projects in Electrical and Computer Engineering
ECE 392: Projects in Electrical and Computer Engineering
ECE 391: Projects in Electrical and Computer Engineering
ECE 292: Projects in Electrical and Computer Engineering
ECE 291: Projects in Electrical and Computer Engineering
ECE 230L: Introduction to Microelectronic Devices and Circuits
ECE 230L9: Introduction to Microelectronic Devices and Circuits-Lab
CHEM 611: Foundations of Nanoscale Science and Technology

Publications:
Mastrocinque F, Bullard G, Alatis JA, Albro JA, Nayak A, Williams NX, et al.Band gap opening of metallic single-walled carbon nanotubes via noncovalent symmetry breaking.Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America. 2024 Mar;121(12):e2317078121.
Smith BN, Ballentine P, Doherty JL, Wence R, Hobbie HA, Williams NX, et al.Aerosol Jet Printing Conductive 3D Microstructures from Graphene Without Post-Processing.Small (Weinheim an der Bergstrasse, Germany). 2024 Mar;20(12):e2305170.
Albarghouthi FM, Semeniak D, Khanani I, Doherty JL, Smith BN, Salfity M, et al.Addressing Signal Drift and Screening for Detection of Biomarkers with Carbon Nanotube Transistors.ACS nano. 2024 Feb;
Franklin AD.Creating high-performance transistors by coating carbon nanotube arrays: Low-dimensional electronics. Nature Electronics. 2024 Jan 1;
Rich J, Cole B, Li T, Lu B, Fu H, Smith BN, et al.Aerosol jet printing of surface acoustic wave microfluidic devices.Microsystems & nanoengineering. 2024 Jan;10:2.
