Name: Andrew Douglas Hilton
Department: Electrical and Computer Engineering
Short Description: Director, Innovation in Computing Education, Professor of the Practice in the Department of ECE

Research Interests:
Computer architecture, specifically architectural support for security and energy-efficient performance

Bio:
Drew Hilton is a Professor of the Practice in Electrical and Computer Engineering, as well as Pratt’s Director of Innovation in Computing Education.His main focus is on teaching professional-level programming skills to ECE’s master's students to prepare them for software engineering careers.Professor Hilton also teaches a 3-week introduction to Programming Python for Duke's Master in Interdisciplinary Data Science, and Duke's Center for Computational Thinking.He has two Coursera specializations, one in Java, and another in C.

Education:
Ph.D. University of Pennsylvania, 2010

Positions:
Professor of the Practice in the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering
Professor of the Practice in the Social Science Research Institute
Associate Professor of the Practice of Computer Science

Awards:
Klein Family Distinguished Teaching Award. Pratt School of Engineering. 2015

Courses Taught:
ECE 899: Special Readings in Electrical Engineering
ECE 651: Software Engineering
ECE 590: Advanced Topics in Electrical and Computer Engineering
ECE 553: Compiler Construction
ECE 551D: Programming, Data Structures, and Algorithms in C++
ECE 391: Projects in Electrical and Computer Engineering
COMPSCI 553: Compiler Construction

Publications:
Huang Z, Joao JA, Rico A, Hilton AD, Lee BC.DynaSprint: Microarchitectural sprints with dynamic utility and thermal management. In: Proceedings of the Annual International Symposium on Microarchitecture, MICRO. 2019. p. 426–39.
Hilton AD, Lipp GM, Rodger SH.Translation from Problem to Code in Seven Steps. In: CompEd 2019 - Proceedings of the ACM Conference on Global Computing Education. 2019. p. 78–84.
Hilton AD, Lipp GM, Rodger SH.A technique for translation from problem to code. In: Annual Conference on Innovation and Technology in Computer Science Education, ITiCSE. 2018. p. 375.
Lehman TS, Hilton AD, Lee BC.MAPS: Understanding Metadata Access Patterns in Secure Memory. In: Proceedings - 2018 IEEE International Symposium on Performance Analysis of Systems and Software, ISPASS 2018. 2018. p. 33–43.
Jacobvitz AN, Hilton AD, Sorin DJ.Multi-program benchmark definition. In: ISPASS 2015 - IEEE International Symposium on Performance Analysis of Systems and Software. 2015. p. 72–82.
