Name: Gleb Finkelstein
Department: Physics
Short Description: Professor of Physics

Research Interests:
My main research topic is the study of the coexistence of superconductivity and the quantum Hall effect. The highlights of this work include: the first observation of a superconducting current induced in the regime of the quantum Hall effect, realization of the quantum Hall-based SQUID, and the first observation of the chiral Andreev edge states predicted 20 years ago. The unique combination of the two of the most robust quantum states – quantum Hall effect and superconductivity – is interesting in its own right
it also promises future applications in quantum information science, e.g. for creation of topologically protected states and excitations. Other research directions of our lab include: multi-terminal Josephson junctions which we developed in ballistic graphene
thermal conductivity measurements
studies of the novel two-dimensional superconductor KTaO_3.

Bio:
Gleb Finkelstein is an experimentalist interested in physics of quantum nanostructures, such as Josephson junctions and quantum dots made of carbon nanotubes, graphene, and topological materials. These objects reveal a variety of interesting electronic properties that may form a basis for future quantum devices.

Education:
B.S. Moscow Institute of Physics and Technology (Russia), 1991
Ph.D. Weizmann Institute of Science (Israel), 1998

Positions:
Professor of Physics
Professor in the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering
Faculty Network Member of the Duke Institute for Brain Sciences

Awards:
Fellow. American Physical Society. 2015
Faculty Early Career Development (CAREER) Program. National Science Foundation. 2003
Faculty Early Career Development (CAREER) Award. National Science Foundation. 2003
Award for excellence in graduate research. Wolf Foundation. 1998
Daniel Brener Memorial Prize for Ph.D. studies. Graduate School, Weizmann Institute of Science. 1996
Distinction Prize for M.Sc. studies. Graduate School, Weizmann Institute of Science. 1993

Courses Taught:
PHYSICS 760: Mathematical Methods of Physics
PHYSICS 509: Quantum Nanophysics
PHYSICS 495: Thesis Independent Study
PHYSICS 493: Research Independent Study
PHYSICS 465: Quantum Mechanics II
PHYSICS 371L: Electronics for physics measurements and instrumentation
PHYSICS 271L: Electronics

Publications:
Arnault EG, Chiles J, Larson TFQ, Chen C-C, Zhao L, Watanabe K, et al.Multiplet Supercurrents in a Josephson Circuit. 2024.
Zhao L, Larson TFQ, Iftikhar Z, Chiles J, Watanabe K, Taniguchi T, et al.Thermal properties of the superconductor-quantum Hall interfaces. 2024.
Zhao L, Arnault EG, Larson TFQ, Watanabe K, Taniguchi T, Amet F, et al.Nonlocal transport measurements in hybrid quantum Hall-superconducting devices. Physical Review B. 2024 Mar 15;109(11).
Zhao L, Arnault EG, Larson TFQ, Watanabe K, Taniguchi T, Amet F, et al.Non-local transport measurements in hybrid quantum Hall -
  superconducting devices. 2023.
Zhao L, Iftikhar Z, Larson TFQ, Arnault EG, Watanabe K, Taniguchi T, et al.Loss and Decoherence at the Quantum Hall-Superconductor Interface.Physical review letters. 2023 Oct;131(17):176604.
