Name: Iman Marvian
Department: Electrical and Computer Engineering
Short Description: Assistant Professor in the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering

Research Interests:
Quantum information and computation theory

Bio:
Iman Marvian received his Ph.D. in Physics in 2012 at the University of Waterloo and Perimeter Institute for Theoretical Physics in Waterloo, Canada. Before moving to Duke, he worked as a postdoctoral researcher at the University of Southern California and MIT.Marvian's main research interest is quantum information and computation theory. He has worked on a wide range of topics in this field, including quantum algorithms, quantum circuits, symmetry-protected topological order, quantum error suppression, open quantum systems, quantum resource theories, and quantum thermodynamics.

Education:
Ph.D. University of Waterloo (Canada), 2012

Positions:
Assistant Professor in the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering
Assistant Professor in the Department of Physics
Member of the Duke Quantum Center

Awards:
National Science Foundation CAREER Award. National Science Foundation (NSF). 2021

Courses Taught:
PHYSICS 627: Quantum Information Science
PHYSICS 623: Quantum Information Theory
PHYSICS 380: Introduction to Quantum Information Science
MATH 363: Introduction to Quantum Information Science
ECE 623: Quantum Information Theory
ECE 523: Quantum Information Science
ECE 110L: Fundamentals of Electrical and Computer Engineering
ECE 110L9: Fundamentals of Electrical and Computer Engineering - Lab

Publications:
Yadavalli SA, Marvian I.Optimal Distillation of Coherent States with Phase-Insensitive
  Operations. 2024.
Liu H, Hulse A, Marvian I.Unitary Designs from Random Symmetric Quantum Circuits. 2024.
Zhukas LA, Wang Q, Katz O, Monroe C, Marvian I.Observation of the Symmetry-Protected Signature of 3-body Interactions. 2024.
Hulse A, Liu H, Marvian I.A framework for semi-universality: Semi-universality of 3-qudit
  SU(d)-invariant gates. 2024.
Bai G, Marvian I.Synthesis of Energy-Conserving Quantum Circuits with XY interaction. 2023.
