Name: Majda Hadziahmetovic
Department: Ophthalmology, Vitreoretinal Diseases & Surgery
Short Description: Associate Professor of Ophthalmology

Research Interests:


Bio:
Majda Hadzihametovic, M.D., received her M.D. from University of Belgrade School of Medicine in 2006, followed by Postdoctoral Fellowship at the University of Pennsylvania, Scheie Eye Institute, from 2007 to 2012. After completing a year of General Surgery training at Drexel University College of Medicine in 2012, she completed Ophthalmology Residency at the same institution from 2013 to 2016, where she served as a chief resident during her final year. After finishing Medical Retina training at Duke, in 2017 she joined the faculty.Dr. Hadziahmetovic’s is a clinician scientist with present research agenda focused on teleophthalmology. She is particularly interested in employing remote diagnosis in early diagnosis, suitable referral and timely treatment of diabetic retinopathy and age-related macular degeneration using cutting-edge noninvasive optic coherence tomography (OCT) imaging and fundus photography.Dr. Hadziahmetovic also has a great interest in basic science, especially investigating new mouse models of retinal diseases. Her long term goal is better understanding of disease processes in Age related macular degeneration using different animal models and potential reversal of morphological changes.

Education:
M.D. University of Belgrade (Serbia), 2006

Positions:
Associate Professor of Ophthalmology
Associate Professor in the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering

Awards:


Courses Taught:


Publications:
Kapoor I, Sarvepalli SM, Grewal DS, Hadziahmetovic M.Clinical Outcomes of Therapeutic Interventions for Autoimmune Retinopathy: A Meta-analysis and Systematic Review.Ophthalmol Sci. 2025;5(1):100622.
Sarici K, Vajzovic L, Jaffe GJ, Hadziahmetovic M.Bacillary layer detachment associated with photodynamic therapy-related acute exudative maculopathy in a case of central serous chorioretinopathy.Can J Ophthalmol. 2024 Dec;59(6):e873–5.
Kapoor I, Sarvepalli SM, D’Alessio DA, Hadziahmetovic M.Impact of glucagon-like peptide-1 receptor agonists on diabetic retinopathy: A meta-analysis of clinical studies emphasising retinal changes as a primary outcome.Clin Exp Ophthalmol. 2024 Sep 26;
Nipp GE, Sarici K, Lee T, Hadziahmetovic M.Risk Factors for Worsening Morphology and Visual Acuity in Eyes with Adult-Onset Foveomacular Vitelliform Dystrophy.Ophthalmology Retina. 2024 Aug;8(8):804–12.
Johnson NA, Gupta P, Lee T, Hadziahmetovic M, Rosdahl JA.The Use of Optical Coherence Tomography for Early Glaucoma Screening in a Population of Patients with Diabetes.Ophthalmic Epidemiol. 2024 Apr;31(2):145–51.
